[hushed, full of wonder] The Day of Light, Sunday, has begun, and its early dawn is struggling with the gloom. The soul of Jesus immediately darts from the prison of Limbo, followed by the whole multitude of the holy souls that are around him. In the twinkling of an eye, it reaches and enters the Sepulchre, and re-unites itself with that Body, which, three days before, it had quitted amidst an agony of suffering. The sacred Body returns to life, raises itself up, and throws aside the winding-sheet, the spices, and the bands. The bruises have disappeared, the Blood has been brought back to the veins; and from these Limbs that had been torn by the scourging, from this Head that had been mangled by the thorns, from these Hands and Feet that had been pierced with nails, there darts forth a dazzling light that fills the cave. [long pause] [reverent, gentle] The holy Angels had clustered round the Stable and adored the Babe of Bethlehem; they are now around the Sepulchre, adoring the Conqueror of Death. They take the shrouds, and, reverently folding them up, place them on the slab, whereon the Body had been laid by Joseph and Nicodemus. [long pause] [joyful, measured] But Jesus was not to tarry in the gloomy Sepulchre. Quicker than a ray of light through a crystal, he passes through the stone that closes the entrance of the cave. Pilate had ordered his seal to be put upon this stone, and a guard of soldiers is there to see that no one touches it. Untouched it is, and unmoved; and yet Jesus is free! Thus, as the Holy Fathers unanimously teach us, was it at his Birth; — he appeared to the gaze of Mary, without having offered the slightest violence to her maternal womb. [short pause] The Birth and the Resurrection, the commencement and the end of Jesus' mission, are two Mysteries which bear on them the unity of resemblance: in the first, it is a Virgin Mother; in the last, it is a sealed Tomb giving forth its Captive God. [long pause] [quiet, triumphant] And whilst this Jesus, this Man-God, thus breaks the sceptre of Death, the stillness of the night is undisturbed. [short pause] His and our Victory has cost him no effort.
